Other things we can do for testing.
So automated tools exist outside of WordPress,
and that is what I like to do first
when I use an automated tool, is to use
something that's outside of WordPress.
So Accessibility Insights for the Web
was provided recently, earlier this year
in March, they announced the launch of it,
Deque Labs and Microsoft, or Deque Systems produced it.
So Microsoft underwrote a lot of the development efforts
to create browser plugins, but also a Windows application.
So I'll make sure I update this deck
to have the link to it, but it is
accessibilityinsights.io, is the link.
And you can add it to chrome as a plugin,
you can add it to Microsoft Edge Insider
if you're on Windows and running Edge,
and the Insider version of it,
or you can download the application for Windows.
So you can check Windows applications
as well as, I think, web applications.
So with that particular one.
But I have it installed in Chrome,
because it's pretty awesome, and one of the things
that we can do, is we can take a look at...
where's my site, so here we go.
So we can take a look at this site
with Accessibility Insights for the Web,
so here's the front page, and it will run
the checks that it knows about to do.
So there are a few different things that you can do.
So you can run this FastPass, which is,
it runs two tests to find the most common
accessibility issues in less than five minutes,
you can do assessment, which is a guided walkthrough
of both automated and manual testing.
This is an excellent tool for that,
and then you can do ad hoc tools,
which you can run just one by one.
So, first thing I'll do is I'll just
open up a FastPass check.
So I'm going to change this window a little bit.
So no failures were detected on this,
lemme change this window too, this runs side by side.
So no failures were found with
the automated checks using this.
Much different than what Tenon did
with it's automated checks, as you are aware now.
But then you can also run tab stop checking,
so you can check for your tab stops.
So I just turned it on, I toggled it on over here
in this other window for accessibility insights,
and then over on the other window once I hit tab,
that skip to content came up with a red circle on it,
and it's gonna show the tab stops.
So then it says wp-default, which is that home link,
and then it skips down to the next focusable element,
which is the comment box, and then the name, email,
but it shows a pathway, and it shows
the number for each of these.
So basically if this looks like it's out of place,
or out of order, if the tab order
visibly jumps around on the page when you're doing this,
then you probably have a problem
with the page structure, or hierarchy on your page.
So this is one of the tools that you can run
straight out of the box with WordPress.
So yes, we'll be sharing all of this after
we have a chance to get everything captioned for this.
So we'll be not only sharing the deck,
the slide deck, but also you'll have
full access to the recording.
Now, that's just the FastPass testing of this page.
So what if we wanna do a full assessment?
So of course we have the automated checks,
and it's scanning, and if it's the same
automated checks, it should come back
with the same results, so it did.
It passed all of these different things on this homepage.
So, if it didn't, then it would flag those items.
Keyboard navigation, so this is where
we would have, you know, the visible focus
and all of that, of all of the focus paths.
So we can do visual helper, and users
must be able to navigate to all interactive components,
so this is that keyboard focusing that we did before.
But this will walk you through all
of the different types of tests
that you need to do, tells you how to test them,
as well as a way to flag them as a potential pass or fail.
You can also export the results to Github,
or I believe to other formats as well,
but there are some things you can do in settings.
So you can use Azure Boards, you can
file issues in Github, or you can also change
other settings like the contrast of this tool.
But it's fantastic, and it will run a number
of different, help you run a number of different tests.
Can't recommend it highly enough, it's just that good.
So I'll close out of that window,
and we'll talk about some other tools,
'cause that's not the only game in town
with accessibility testing.
Inside Chrome you can run an audit using Lighthouse
and using the accessibility testing tools there.
You can also run it against performance
and things like that, so I'm going to do
just that right now, so I'm gonna open up inspector,
and in here, we have an audits panel.
And you can run audits choosing which device type,
mobile or desktop, which audits you wanna run,
performance, progressive web app, best practices,
accessibility, SEO, so you can run all of those
or just one of them, doesn't matter.
You can simulate a slow connection if you want,
for performance, I'm just gonna say no throttling,
and I'm just gonna click on run audit.
So I'm running the accessibility audit using Lighthouse.
Lighthouse uses the aXe testing engine,
just like the Accessibility Insights for the Web does,
so it should get about the same results.
So it's auditing this right now, and it's generating
a report, and lo and behold, because it's running
the same engine that Accessibility Insights was,
and it didn't find any automated issues,
it gives me 100 for accessibility.
100% score, so I'm getting a good grade right now, for that.
The thing to keep in mind though
with any automated testing, is what I have repeated
a few times, and what I saw Sumner and others
post in the chat when I looked over, is that
this is not a magical endorsement
that your site is fully accessible.
If you get 100 on the accessibility audit,
you know, celebrations are probably not in order,
because only a subset of issues
can be automatically detected, and they say that here.
And so they say, "manual testing is also encouraged."
So it tells you what passed in here,
which is really cool, so it tells you what it checks for,
and you can expand these items
and learn more about them, learn more
about these checks, which is great.
And you can see what was not applicable,
so I didn't have any access keys,
so it didn't check it, I didn't have audio,
I didn't have an iframe or frame elements,
things like that, video elements, I don't have them
on this particular page, so it didn't check them.
And then, things to automatically check.
This all is very helpful to review as well,
so this could be your guide for manual review as well.
You can run the automated checks,
have your developers run it if you're not a developer,
but then have them go through and do
the manual review steps as well.
And that would be for each page,
or each page type, each template on the site
is what I would recommend for that.
So, that is the Chrome audit via Lighthouse,
which is great, there's the WAVE tool
that is available as a browser plugin.
You can also just point sites at,
or point WAVE at sites, and it will crawl them,
or it will run a scan on a particular single page.
So let's look at this with WAVE.
So, with WAVE I have a tool here,
the WAVE extension, and it says WAVE this page.
So it just waved the page, and then it's saying,
okay, I've got zero errors here, which is great,
I have seven alerts, wonder what those are.
I have eight features, 13 structural elements,
and you can see it with styles, without styles,
which is a good way to check if the page makes sense
without your markup in terms of visual language,
and then contrast, are there contrast problems.
You know, here are contrast tools,
so you can basically check the contrast
of something and see if it meets the needs.
So these alerts, there are seven
possible headings on this page they're saying.
Hmm, is this a heading?
Yeah, I don't know, you know, is it, should it be?
If it is, then maybe that's a problem.
But they don't know, so they're just
flagging it as a possible issue.
There are six things that have form labels,
and they're all listed with green icons on them,
with a little tag, so that means these are good.
These are good form labels.
If these were not labeled correctly,
WAVE would have those under errors, and would tell you
how many form labels with a different icon,
with red on it in a different section
to alert you to an error.
So it tells you about the heading levels,
and things like that, and basically gives you
all of the page information.
You can see that you can get an outline with WAVE as well.
So you can do basic accessibility testing with WAVE
on any page very very easily.